Documentation for shader built-in include files (godotengine/godot#94193) (#10703)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/shaders/compute_shaders.rst

   GPU separately, which lets you compare how a similar algorithm can be
   implemented in two different ways (with the GPU implementation being faster
   in most cases).

Includes Database
-----------------
.. warning::

>     The feature is still been baked!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The feature is experimental.
```

> The feature is still been baked! 

I'm not sure how this is noted elsewhere, but it seems better to use the wording experimental rather than the concept of feature baking. It's unclear how a software feature is related to cooking.

Author: Do think that warning is excessive?

Considering what DastiaanOlij said in his PR I'm a bit torn about it.

Reviewer 2: The warning is fine IMO. Just need to use the more traditional "experimental" terminology

   GPU separately, which lets you compare how a similar algorithm can be
   implemented in two different ways (with the GPU implementation being faster
   in most cases).

Includes Database
-----------------
.. warning::

    The feature is experimental.
    

>     More files are added in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    More files are added in the future.
```

Not necessary to mention.

Author: fine

   GPU separately, which lets you compare how a similar algorithm can be
   implemented in two different ways (with the GPU implementation being faster
   in most cases).

Includes Database
-----------------
.. warning::

    The feature is experimental.

Godot provides some shader includes through the ``ShaderIncludeDB`` class. The include
operation is done automatically by Godot. Shader includes are **not** files in
our system.

To see what headers are available, use
``ShaderIncludeDB.list_built_in_include_files``. The contents of these files
can be found in Godot's Git repository or by calling
``ShaderIncludeDB.get_built_in_include_file``.

The example below renders a transparent pulsating circle at the center of the
screen. The corners of the screen are colored fully white. The edge of the
circle is smoothed.

.. code-block:: glsl

    #[compute]
    #version 450

    #define MAX_VIEWS 2
    #include "godot/scene_data_inc.glsl"

    layout(local_size_x = 8, local_size_y = 8, local_size_z = 1) in;

    layout(set = 0, binding = 0, std140) uniform SceneDataBlock {

>       SceneData data;
>       SceneData prev_data;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        SceneData data;
        SceneData prev_data;
```
Four spaces for indentation

    } scene_data_block;

    layout(rgba16f, set = 0, binding = 1) uniform image2D screen;

    void main() {

>       ivec2 uv = ivec2(gl_GlobalInvocationID.xy);
> 
>       vec4 color = imageLoad(screen, uv);
> 
>       // Check UV is in the view.
>       if (uv.x >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x || uv.y >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y) {
>         return;
>       }
> 
>       float maxlen = max(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y);
> 
>       vec2 center = vec2(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x / 2, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y / 2);
>       float r = length(abs(center - uv));
>       float alpha = smoothstep(maxlen * (0.55 + 0.3 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), maxlen * (0.2 + 0.2 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), r);
> 
>       // Calculate blend between full white and image's current color.
>       color = (1 - alpha) * vec4(1, 1, 1, 1) + alpha * color;
>       imageStore(screen, uv, color);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        ivec2 uv = ivec2(gl_GlobalInvocationID.xy);

        vec4 color = imageLoad(screen, uv);

        // Check UV is in the view.
        if (uv.x >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x || uv.y >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y) {
            return;
        }

        float maxlen = max(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y);

        vec2 center = vec2(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x / 2, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y / 2);
        float r = length(abs(center - uv));
        float alpha = smoothstep(maxlen * (0.55 + 0.3 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), maxlen * (0.2 + 0.2 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), r);

        // Calculate blend between full white and image's current color.
        color = (1 - alpha) * vec4(1, 1, 1, 1) + alpha * color;
        imageStore(screen, uv, color);
```

Author: Right.... Just to explain myself. I usually pad with 2 spaces long tabs. I didn't forgot to change tabs to spaces but I did forgot to adjust the length to 4.

Sorry, @AThousandShips

   GPU separately, which lets you compare how a similar algorithm can be
   implemented in two different ways (with the GPU implementation being faster
   in most cases).

Includes Database
-----------------
.. warning::

    The feature is experimental.

> Godot provides some shader includes through ``ShaderIncludeDB`` class. Include

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Godot provides some shader includes through the ``ShaderIncludeDB`` class. The include
```

operation is done automatically by Godot. Shader includes are **not** files in
our system.

To see what headers are available, use
``ShaderIncludeDB.list_built_in_include_files``. The contents of these files
can be found in Godot's Git repository or by calling
``ShaderIncludeDB.get_built_in_include_file``.

> The example below renders a transparent pulsating circle at the centre of the
> screen. The corners of the screen are coloured fully white. The edge of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example below renders a transparent pulsating circle at the center of the
screen. The corners of the screen are colored fully white. The edge of the
```
Please use US English

  #[compute]
  #version 450

  #define MAX_VIEWS 2
  #include "godot/scene_data_inc.glsl"

  layout(local_size_x = 8, local_size_y = 8, local_size_z = 1) in;

  layout(set = 0, binding = 0, std140) uniform SceneDataBlock {
    SceneData data;
    SceneData prev_data;
  } scene_data_block;

  layout(rgba16f, set = 0, binding = 1) uniform image2D screen;

  void main(){
    ivec2 uv = ivec2(gl_GlobalInvocationID.xy);

    vec4 color = imageLoad(screen, uv);
  
    // Check UV is in the view.
    if (uv.x >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x || uv.y >= scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y) {
      return;
    }
  
    float maxlen = max(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y);
  
    vec2 center = vec2(scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.x / 2, scene_data_block.data.viewport_size.y / 2);
    float r = length(abs(center - uv));
    float alpha = smoothstep(maxlen * (0.55 + 0.3 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), maxlen * (0.2 + 0.2 * sin(scene_data_block.data.time)), r);
  
    // Calculate blend between full white and image's current color.
    color = (1 - alpha) * vec4(1, 1, 1, 1) + alpha * color;
    imageStore(screen, uv, color);

>   }

Reviewer 3: The indentation here needs to be fixed to match the rest of the document, four spaces

> The example includes ``godot/scene_data_inc.glsl``, which defines ``SceneData``
> data structure. ``SceneData`` needs ``MAX_VIEWS`` for some of its' members.
> Uniform ``SceneDataBlock`` correspondence to buffer got from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example includes ``godot/scene_data_inc.glsl``, which defines the ``SceneData``
data structure. ``SceneData`` needs ``MAX_VIEWS`` for some of its members.
The ``SceneDataBlock`` uniform corresponds to the buffer got from
```

``p_render_data.get_render_scene_data()``. In ``_render_callback``, you can
bind scene data to a uniform.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var scene_data_buffers = p_render_data.get_render_scene_data().get_uniform_buffer();
    var uniform = RDUniform.new()
    uniform.uniform_type = RenderingDevice.UNIFORM_TYPE_UNIFORM_BUFFER;
    uniform.binding = 0;
    uniform.add_id(scene_data_buffers);

> Shader uses ``SceneDataBlock.data`` members ``viewport_size`` and ``time``
> counter. Member ``viewport`` is currently the viewport's size. It is used to
> calculate the centre of the screen. Counter ``time`` is an analogue of time
> since the start of the game. It is used to make pulsating animation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The shader uses the ``SceneDataBlock.data`` members ``viewport_size`` and ``time``. The ``viewport`` member is the viewport's current size. It is used to
calculate the center of the screen. The ``time`` counter represents the time
since the start of the game. It is used to make a pulsating animation.
```

   implemented in two different ways (with the GPU implementation being faster
   in most cases).

Includes Database
-----------------
.. warning::

    The feature is experimental.

Godot provides some shader includes through ``ShaderIncludeDB`` class. Include
operation is done automatically by Godot. Shader includes are **not** files in
our system.

To see what headers are available, use
``ShaderIncludeDB.list_built_in_include_files``. The contents of these files
can be found in Godot's Git repository or by calling
``ShaderIncludeDB.get_built_in_include_file``.

The example below renders a transparent pulsating circle at the centre of the
screen. The corners of the screen are coloured fully white. The edge of the
circle is smoothed.

.. code-block:: glsl

  #[compute]
  #version 450

  #define MAX_VIEWS 2
  #include "godot/scene_data_inc.glsl"

  layout(local_size_x = 8, local_size_y = 8, local_size_z = 1) in;

  layout(set = 0, binding = 0, std140) uniform SceneDataBlock {
    SceneData data;
    SceneData prev_data;
  } scene_data_block;

  layout(rgba16f, set = 0, binding = 1) uniform image2D screen;

  void main(){
    ivec2 uv = ivec2(gl_GlobalInvocationID.xy);

>   vec4 color = imageLoad(screen, uv);

Reviewer 4: Indentation is messed up here

Author: hups
